From the prophets of old and from the philosophers of our own time the
same message and warning have reached us.  But, like all oft-repeated
truths, it has in time lost something of its actuality and cogency.  A
lesson, an actual experience, was needed to bring it home.  It is from
that salutory but terrible ordeal that we have just emerged, with minds
which are still stunned by the suddenness of the blow and with spirits
which are chastened by the realization of our own limitations and
impotence.  The world has paid a fearful price for its schooling.  Hardly
yet have we learned the full tale of disaster, but the destruction by
fire of New York, of Orleans, and of Brighton constitutes in itself one
of the greatest tragedies in the history of our race.  When the account
of the railway and shipping accidents has been completed, it will furnish
grim reading, although there is evidence to show that in the vast
majority of cases the drivers of trains and engineers of steamers
succeeded in shutting off their motive power before succumbing to the
poison.  But the material damage, enormous as it is both in life and in
property, is not the consideration which will be uppermost in our minds
to-day.  All this may in time be forgotten.  But what will not be
forgotten, and what will and should continue to obsess our imaginations,
is this revelation of the possibilities of the universe, this destruction
of our ignorant self-complacency, and this demonstration of how narrow is
the path of our material existence and what abysses may lie upon either
side of it.